Clark Boylan
CS 572
Homework 1
sstore driver
README
11/03/2010

The sstore driver provides two simple devices that can be used for rudimentary
data storage in the linux kernel or for simple inter process communications.
The sstore devices can only be accessed by root.

Using the Sstore Driver

The sstore driver supports two module parameters, num_of_blobs (the number of
supported blobs) and blob_size (the maximum size for the data portion of a
blob). Loading the driver module will create two devices, /dev/sstore0 and
/dev/sstore1. These two devices support three basic operations, read, write and
delete.

Read and write are supported through read(2) and write(2) calls made on the
devices. The sstore devices use a protocol for read and write calls made
this way. Calls to read(2) and write(2) expect a pointer to a
	struct sstore_blob {
		int size;
		int index;
		char * data;
	};
as their buf argument with size indicating the size of data, index indicating
the blob index to read or write to, and data pointing to a preallocted region
of user buffer space. On a call to read(2) the device will copy up to size bytes
of its data at the specified index into the buffer indicated in the read(2) buf
argument. A call to write(2) will copy up to size bytes of the specified buffer
to the given blob index for later retrieval. Read calls will block if data is
currently unavailable. Write calls will overwrite and previously held data at
the specified index. The count arguments to read(2) and write(2) should be
sizeof(sstore_blob) and not the size of the data buffer.

Blob deletion is performed through an ioctl(2) command on the sstore devices.
The command to delete is (1 | ('k' << 8)) and the ioctl(2) arg argument should
contain the index of the blob to delete. ioctl() will return an error if you
attempt to delete an invalid index.

In addition to operations on the two devices the driver also provides driver
information through procfs. The driver creates two files, /proc/sstore/stats
and /proc/sstore/data. Cating /proc/sstore/stats will print statistics for each
device (number of opens, reads, writes and deletes). Cating /proc/sstore/data
will print the index, size, and data of any currently valid blobs in hex. The
format this information is printed in is:
	index size
	data (first byte through last byte)
